I"n<p>One of the skills that I’ve always felt I’ve been lacking is my ability to write long-form. The ability to eloquently portray my thoughts to someone reading what I’ve written is not something that I’ve been very good at. The primary reason why is a lack of practice. It’s been a long time since I’ve actually sat down and just written. The major roadblock that I do face whenever I sit down to write something is what do I write about. It’s effectively writer’s block even though I’ve not even started writing. Do I go overboard and analyze what people write about and try to understand the type of content that is of use to people so that anything I write here doesn’t devolve into having a readership of exactly 2 people (Hi!) regularly and one person who somehow stumbles upon my website, looks around at my website and realizes that it’s just random musing with no context whatsoever.</p>

<p>Every time I do decide that I’m going to write something, the question that ends up ruining my attempt at writing is why should I write publically. What utility does writing publically serve that is not served by maintaining a personal diary where I have the freedom to write anything. In the most pragmatic terms, I can write without the fear of someone looking negatively at my thoughts and using that to make decisions that influence me negatively. I don’t have to worry about how people will perceive my writing and judge me based on what I’ve written. On the other hand, if I want to grow in my ability in conveying thoughts, I need to learn how to write for others to read. The primary complaint that people have about my writing is the lack of context setting. I end up writing things assuming that the person reading is aware of the direction I intend on taking or has the broader context of why I’m choosing to emphasize certain facts. This results in essays that are effectively random sentences put in together with no good reason why I’ve stopped writing about one subject and moved on to the next. What’s worse is that there’s no context setting on why I’ve chosen to move on the discussing the next point from the previous point. I think one reason why this may be true is that this also explains why I am bad at reviewing things that I have already written. If I read something long after I first drafted it, the context is lost. The jumps and leaps in logic become more jarring. Worse, it hits me that this is what everyone else is reading. The essay goes from a coherent treatise proving a central point to a jumble of words that I have a tough time connecting.</p>

<p>Another reason why I think that writing publically will probably be better than writing privately is that there is a sense of laziness that comes from writing privately. When there’s no one else that is reading what I write, I can always just give up on writing properly. Both in terms of grammar and actual content. This is not ideal since the primary goal of writing for me is learning how to communicate and elaborating thoughts. When you’re writing for someone to read, you’re forced to expand or elucidate upon points once you’ve written them down. You can’t repeat the same points because you know that you won’t be adding value. But with writing privately, you can always just cheat and go down the same path and just repeat the same thought endlessly. There’s no incentive to write properly.</p>

<p>In conclusion, I guess I should start writing long-form. The few things that I may try playing around with are fleshing out thoughts I’ve had throughout the week or writing about interesting problems that I’ve seen or that I’ve solved.</p>

:ET